Political Entities - Caillard Continent - Primary
  
The world is divided into five continents. However, the campaign is set on Caillard, a continent playing host to six major political entities, each based roughly on some real-world and classic fantasy analogues, with plenty of unique variation and contradictions. The six political entities are:

Emeras
  Centrally located on the continent and based loosely on a pastiche of German and English (Arthurian) mythology with a dash of Rome. A long history dating back to antiquity, it is a shadow of the older empire from whose ashes it rose. It has been home to many heroes and villains and it is the native land of the Original Four. It is preparing to defend itself in war against Glastony for the (alleged) murder of Duchess Ophelia Rosewind, sister to the Queen of Glastony.

Glastony
  If Emeras is England and Germany with a dash of Rome, Glastony is France in the midst of a magical-industrial revolution. Founded by a prophet after a great cataclysm, Ascellina was eventually granted a form of a great gold wyrm by the Platinum Dragon himself and allowed ascension as a minor deity. The current Queen, Amelie Estonne, is young, fierce, and on the warpath after the murder of her sister, Ophelia. Its lands are located directly west of Emeras.

Jordheim
  A country with a bloody history, Jordheim lies to the north of Emeras. Formally allied with Emeras, Jordheim’s council has not weighed in yet where it will stand in the upcoming war as they are constantly on vigil against their goblinoid enemies in the Nevermelt. Notably, Jordheim is fairly democratic, having a council of commons alongside its king, Torgen III.

Peros
  South of Emeras, separated by the Redmarsh, Peros is a coalition of powerful merchant cities founded originally by a powerful seafaring family form Selentis. It is ruled by three noble scions from the most powerful merchant houses of the realm, collectively known as the Triumvirate. Its location on the southern peninsula positions it as the chief gatekeeper of the commerce with the other continents and it (unfortunately) plays home to a large and booming slave trade.

Tenestras
  A city-state located on the furthest western tip of the continent located in the Elfweald, one of Callard’s largest forests. Its founding stretches back to the First Age and its Queen, Ellestriel, has ruled for hundreds of years, her lifespan stretching over two millennia. They are isolationists and keep a very tight diplomatic tie to Glastony.

Tammerund
  The hold of the dwarves on the far eastern end of the continent, their land is surrounded by a vast mountain range and home to a fertile land on the interior with a great inland sea. Generally amicable, they have a coalition of trade and commerce with both Emeras and Jordheim, but their involvement in continental politics is limited as they fight an interior war with the denizens of Trollheim.

