Time-line - The World
  
BCA: Before Current Age
CA: Current Age

??? BCA: The Primordials create Eld and begin to shape their first creations
??? BCA: The Birth of the Gods
??? BCA: Tiamat creates Dragonkind alongside her lover, Bahamut
??? BCA: Corellon creates the Feywild and its denizens, including the Eladrin
??? BCA: Nerull creates the Shadowfel as his own sanctuary
??? BCA: Moridin fashions the first dwarves
??? BCA: Mortalkind is created by He Who Was
??? BCA: Asmodeus, Exarch and Archangel, betrays and consumes the god known only as He Who Was, striking all knowledge of him from the record, ascending in the process
??? - ~7000 BCA: Pre-history
~7000 BCA: The Age of Antiquity (First Era) begins
6978 BCA: The Unseelie and Seelie courts splinter due to infighting in the Feywild; Corellon opens a gate to Eld and the Seelie Eladrin establish enclaves
6709 BCA: Tenestras is founded
6576 BCA: The Founding of Jordheim by Jord Bragisdottir
6194 BCA: The Conquests of Theoric Barigund the Unbreaking
6192 BCA: Barigund Empire is established with the crowning of Emporer Theoric I
6000 BCA: The Games of Divinity begin
5341 BCA: Tiamat betrays Bahamut in the Games of Divinity
5340 BCA: Amoth, God of Justice, is slain by Orcus and Demogorgon with Tiamat’s help
5339 BCA: Bahamut takes Amoth’s domains and declares war on Tiamat’s brood, beginning the War of the Scale
5338 BCA: The War of the Scale leads to the decimation of Tiamat’s brood and Tiamut is executed
~4400 BCA: Gruumsh slays Tuem, God of War, in a duel as part of the Games. Kord Stormlord, Tuem’s brother, assumes War domain and swears revenge
3041 BCA: The Raven Queen consumes the corpse of Nerull and ascends to divinity, taking his portfolio for herself
3003 BCA: Maglubiyet is slain by Bane and Gruumsh with Asmodeus’s help and his portfolio is destroyed. Bahamut and Pelor declare war, bringing an end to the Games of Divinity. Kord recognizes his opportunity and allies himself with Bahamut and Pelor.
3002 BCA: Kord takes Gruumsh’s eye, forcing him to withdraw, leaving Bane to fight alone. The battle between Pelor and Bane sees the latter sent crashing to earth resulting in the Sundering of the continents and the deaths of millions in the process. The Raven Queen, Erathis and Sehanine intervene on Mortalkind’s behalf and broker an end to the Godwar
3001 BCA: The Divine Gate is created by the three with Moradin’s aid. Sehanine links the power to Eld itself through the creation of Leylines, resulting in the gift of arcane magic for Mortalkind
3000 BCA: The Age of High Arcana (Second Era) begins
2674 BCA: Lantel is constructed by the wizard Leomund as a manse for himself atop one of the great leylines
2634 BCA: Leomund establishes the Azure Circle alongside Otto, Florne Falmoray, Harquen, and Tasha Gleameye
2336 BCA: Emperor Berentas XI (Berentas the Bloody) attacks Lantel in a bid for power sparking short but volatile war; the Empire is turned away
2273 BCA: Leomund disappears, Rethillor is named his successor
2271 BCA: Tasha Gleameye is discovered to have murdered Leomund and is put on trial, sentenced to death
2154 BCA: The Barigundian Empire inadvertently causes a minor cataclysm on the continent of Caillard through magical experimentation, resulting in a death count rivaling the Sundering. Those who survive scatter over the westernlands, dubbing the ruin as the Scarred Lands.
2157 BCA: The Barigundian Empire’s regional governors begin to diverge from the others, solidifying and consolidating their power locally
~2150-2140 BCA: Over a 10 year period the Empire’s government fragments further, eventually resulting in the dissolution of the Empire and the official founding of several different city-states (including Emeras)
~2140 BCA: First records of Vecna emerge as a rising star of the Lidless Eye
986 BCA: Ascellina Drakeheart relays prophetic visions of Tiamat’s coming resurrection and the inaction of the gods to intercede and prevent it. She begins to draw together the people of the westerlands
984 BCA: With the Azure Circle’s help Ascelline draws several knightly orders to her cause. Aldric Glaston, Knight of the Golden Dawn, becomes her chief adviser and commander.
981 BCA: Ascellina, with the help of her followers and the people of the westerlands establishes Glastony, named for her now-husband, who is crowned King Glaston I with unanimous support
961 BCA: Tiamut is resurrected with Vecna’s help
960 BCA: Tiamat’s Brood begins to ravage the continent unhindered, beginning the Second War of the Scale
957 BCA: Ascellina Drakeheart dies in selfless sacrifice in the defense of Glastony, and with the help of Aldric and other heroes manage to slay the oldest wyrms of the new Brood, causing them to retreat
956 BCA: Ascellina is revered as the savior of Glastony. The Platinum Dragon rewards her selfless sacrifice by resurrecting her as a Gold Wyrm to continue protecting her country.
743 BCA: The Lidless Eye is rooted out and destroyed by the Gold Wyrm
541 BCA: Astoria Keen-Eye, Rethillor of the Azure Circle, Venger, Ellestriel, Balagos, Acererak, Vecna, Otto Whitecloak, Sett, Nystul, Zander Zyfalmo, Lom, and MordenKyr form the Assembly of Thirteen to supervise the use of Magic responsibly.
35 BCA: An attack is lead on the city Amphiros in Angrost; a mightly conjuring of high sorcery devastates the population, causing the leyline to disjunct and disappear along with the city itself off the prime material plane
~33 BCA: Oozes and slimes are created by on of the Thirteen
~31 BCA: Denizens of the Far Realms are sighted in remote locations on Eld
29 BCA: Astoria Keen-Eye presents evidence to the Assembly that several of its members are delving into dark magics and using it to influence current events. A vote is called, an investigation begins
28 BCA: The investigation concludes and several of the Thirteen are brought up on various charges. They refuse to surrender and splinter off from the Assembly, reforming the Lidless Eye
27 BCA: The remaining member of the Assembly attempt to capture several of the members of the Lidless Eye and fail which results in the declaration of war. The War of the Magi begins.
22 BCA: Ascellina the Golden Scaled is slain in battle. She is canonized by King Laurent Glaston III as a saint and is welcomed as a minor diety in Bahamut’s domain
18 BCA: The Drow under the guidance of Venger attempt to summon the Spider Queen. The plan is narrowly thwarted by one of the junior members of the Assembly, Ellestriel, who leaves the Assembly shortly after.
17 BCA: Ellestriel is crowned queen in Tenestras and begins immediately building an army in Tenestras
15 BCA: The elven armies capture Venger and he is imprisoned, his sentence to last for 10 000 years and 1 day
4 BCA: Lom kills Acererak in a duel
1 BCA: Vecna is located and destroyed by a band of heroes known as the Red Company
0 BCA: The end of the War of the Magi. Sehanine with Ioun’s help burns away the knowledge of high magicks.
