Time-line - The Third Era of Eld (Cailard-specific)
  
CA: Current Age

0 CA: The Third Era (Current Age) begins
3 CA: Astoria Keen-eye, the de facto leader of the Assembly of Thirteen, dies of old age
5 CA: The remaining members of the Assembly of Thirteen (Otto Whitecloak, Rethillor, Lom, Zander Zyfalmo, and Mordenkyr) vote to disband the Assembly permanently. Rethillor returns to Lantel and the Azure Circle
6 CA: The Ordo Pentaculum is founded by the remaining wizards with the blessing of King Pelinus Emeras III. Otto Whitecloak is elected as the leader and they begin establishing a school for the training of new wizards
16 CA: Colonizers from Selentis arrive on Caillard's southernmost tip, establishing the city of Cyarte
16-22 CA: The Cyartes further colonize Redmarsh, establishing cities along the river: Qyrus and Azeyr. The Blooded, the Cyartes' ruling class, dub the new coalition Peros, named for an ancient Selentian seafaring conqueror and hero
28 CA: Lom disappears
43 CA: Goblins emerge from the mountains surrounding Tammerund and begin to ravage the dwarflands
45 CA: The First Goblin War begins between the dwarves and the Goblins; seeing a need for resources, the dwarves begin to harvest wood from the nearby forests of Goldhammer, discovering Trollheim in the process; the Trollkin retaliate violently
46 CA: The goblin tribes ally with Trollheim and lay siege to Goldhammer; the dwarves are swiftly pushed back to their ancestral home and in their desperation begin to explore drastic alternatives
49 CA: Backed against the wall, the dwarves unleash an arcane working reminiscent of the second era; a large portion of Tammerund is devastated and most of the goblin and troll army with it, leaving nothing but a crater and desolation. The land is visited by a rainstorm that lasts 100 days, filling the crater; the Goldhammers dub it Moradin's regret and vow to never employ such magicks again, forsaking wizardry altogether
53 CA: The Goldhammer dwarves lead an invasion force into the mountains, pursuing what remains of the goblin tribes. They discover Thunderspire and lay siege, eventually taking the city for their own; the goblinoids retreat into the mountains, their civilization shattered
57 CA: Zander Zyfalmo disappears
74 CA: The Goldhammers begin to re-inhabit Tammerund; Dael, Thane and War Hero of the Thunderspire campaign, is granted governorship. Dael's Rise is built in her honor
76 CA: Emeras builds Highkeep in Goldhammer's Shield
78 CA: The Goldhammer dwarves discover Highkeep and lay siege to the city, claiming Emeras is an invading force
79 CA: A host of goblins attacks the dwarves in mid-siege, pincering them; Duke Gallus Crestor sees an opportunity and sends riders out to aid the dwarves; he himself joins the fray and personally slays their chieftain, routing them. An alliance is formed between the Goldhammers and Emeras, with the Duke offering to give administration of the city to the dwarves as long as Emerasian business interests could continue unhindered. The dwarves agree as repayment for the debt and Duke Gallus Crestor returns to Emeras, heralded as a hero (becoming very very rich in the process)
87 CA: King Weymar Emeras I
88 CA: Rethillor of the Azure Circle dies of old age; Otto Whitecloak, grieving the loss of his oldest friend, journeys to Lantel to mourn and then disappears
91 CA: Peros establishes Gede's Hand
93 CA: Peros establishes Velis
96 CA: Peros captures and assimilates Kher
97 CA: Peros captures and assimilates Wisten
110 CA: The Perosian slave trade prospers as they roam up and down the eastern coastline around the Penny Sea, raiding the villages of the Copper Fens
122 CA: King Bragi IV of Jordheim bans necromancy, shirking several generations of tradition and history. Massive infighting rocks Asvir as several venerated family tombs are invaded by the King's thanes and are burnt to the ground along with their occupants (living and dead alike). Survivors flee southward into the Icemaw range and establish Whitehall to preserve their tradition
124 CA: King Bragi IV learns of the existence of Whitehall and sends a sizeable army to sack it; a mere week later, an army of goblinoids led by the hobgoblin Blacktooth arrive by ship on the northern shore and begin to march southward, heralding the start of the Goblin Wars. Asvir is sacked and King Bragi IV is captured and executed personally by Blacktooth. The army sent to sack Whitehall instead rallies in the mountain city, sending requests for aid southward
125 CA: The goblin armies roam throughout the Nevermelt, establishing camps and pillaging the villages of Jordheim with impunity. Emeras forms an official alliance with Jordheim
126 CA: Fort Antellus is constructed as a midway rallying point between Whitehall and New Berentas. The dwarves of Highkeep agree to assist against the unified Goblin armies and sail from Thunderspire
127 CA: The dwarven armies land in Jordheim and a simultaneous attack is launched. The forces of Whitehall and Emeras liberate Asvir as the dwarves move inland, eventually crushing the goblinoids in between, scattering them. Thane Einar Egilsson takes Blacktooth's head in battle. A celebration is held and talks begin to elect a new high king of Jordheim, though no agreement can be made, as Bragi IV is still fresh in their mind. A long, bitter year ensues, and through necessity a Council of Thanes is formed to govern in the interim. The dwarves and Jordheim construct Glacierwrath to serve as a watch point on the sea (and port of trade)
210 CA: The Revolutions of Jordheim—a bloody year-long revolt led by Bor Magnusson in Asvir sees a new governing body formed alongside the Council of Thanes--the House of Soil--to represent the common man. Bor Magnusson is elected as its first representative, and free elections by the people are held in Asvir, Whitehall, and Glacierwrath and the outlying villages to fill the remaining seats
310 CA: King Weymar Emeras I travels westward alone on a spiritual journey, leaving Queen Johanna to rule in the interim.
319 CA: Weymar builds Oakvale
323 CA: Bands of orcs and gnolls emerge from the Scarred Lands into Glastony and begin ransacking villages. The Royal Knights lead a short campaign and drive the invaders into the Marrow river
325 CA: Construction of Fort Anget completes
344 CA: Port Jedda, Emeras's first port city, is built
365 CA: Weymar passes away and is laid to rest outside the Barrow Downs
371 CA: Construction of the Main Run begins
398 CA: Thornbriar is established by Ser Orrym Rosewind and is elevated to the rank of Duke by King Lorinus Emeras I
478 CA: Balagos reveals himself as a Great Red Wyrm, emerging from the earth in a firestorm, tearing a rift into the Elemental Plane of Fire. Velis is coated in ash by the dragon's emergence and he begins to consolidate power and land in Redmarsh, collecting tribute from Peros
479 CA: Balagos leads rain of carnage further north into Emeras. King Weymar III attempts to do battle with the great wyrm alongside several of his knights, to Mordenkyr's protest. He is slain. Mordenkyr and Balagos engage in a five day battle throughout the ruin of Velis resulting in the closing of the tear to the Plane of Fire. Balagos' and Mordenkyr's bodies are not found and Velis is abandoned, declared cursed as hungry dead begin to emerge from the ash
480 CA: A monument to Weymar III's bravery is built. His remains, along with his knights, are given a warrior's send off in the lake nearby. The lake and town come to be known as King's Lake and Weymar's Rest, respectively
~510-515 CA: Men from Eór nan Fuír arrive on the island off of Peros and name it Tir Medr. Carthaig and Dun Erda are built and the island is explored, where they come into contact with several druidic tribes
517 CA: The men of Tir Medr open trade with Peros
533 CA: Men of Dun Erda sail northward to the next island, dubbing it Tir Tabh; Port Coedy is built
535 CA: Caer Moran is built
539 CA: Nen is built
541 CA: Pirates from Selentis land and establish Lowtide as a neutral port of refuge, growing Peros' slave trade
537 CA: The Bloody Sail conflicts begin as Angrostian pirates come into conflict with Glastonian naval vessels
540 CA: A great Kraken emerges on the Glaston coast during a major sea battle; all vessels are capsized by the beast and the surrounding waters begin to be known as the Sea of Bones
541 CA: The Kraken is slain by a group of mercenaries led by Angrostian captain Loffrich the Sweet
778 CA: Finn is born
~741 CA: Lethian is born
745 CA: The Summer Rebellion.  
756 CA: Mistgate is constructed
786 CA: Finn Stiffroot is taken for training at Bluesky Monastery in Drym
788 CA: The Orcish Wars begin; Graz Bonebreaker emerges as victor and brings his united Orcish tribes northward where they found the city of Graz-Darul
793 CA: Kelet's Fist is founded
794 CA: Kasimir, Pendor are born
795 CA: Alton is born
799 CA: King Pelinus Emeras IX marries Jordana Torgensdottir
808 CA: Duke Deryck Rosewind marries Ophelia Estonne
810 CA: The plague in Lantel begins. Caelum Redding of the Azure Circle declares quarantine in the East End
811 CA: The Blood Moon. Kelemris and Seilora are abducted from Oakvale. Ophelia Rosewind dies; Queen Amelie Glaston declares war on Emeras citing murder

