House Rules
  
PHB Races/Classes, with case-by-case approval for outside materials (such as XGE).
Feats are allowed.
Backgrounds are optional - if the background desired doesn't match a custom one can be created.

The Grasp of the Raven Queen (Resurrection / Raise dead rule)
  When the resurrection of a creature is being attempted, the caster must immediately make a skill check, adding their primary spellcasting modifier (without proficiency bonus) in addition to paying all other applicable costs.

  On a success the spell activates without a hitch and the target is restored to life. Should the spell fail the only thing that will work is a Resurrection Ritual. This requires a large amount of preparation, including proper sanctified location, at least three participants (one of whom must be the primary spellcaster), and 4 hours of uninterrupted time, in addition to all other costs.

  Once these prerequisites are met, a skill challenge is triggered and the participating members must contribute something significant to persuade the soul to return from its Final End. The DCs and criteria of acceptance for the skill challenge will be decided at the behest of the DM, and bear in mind that should the creature not wish to return (in the case of a fellow PC) they reserve the right to refuse the call and enjoy their afterlife.

  Destiny and the moment of passing is the domain of the Raven Queen, and as such, every time a creature is brought back from the other side the thread of fate that tethers them to life is frayed permanently, increasing applicable difficulty checks by 2.

  EXCEPTION: The Wish spell satisfies any and all conditions of this spell EXCEPT for the disposition of the target. If the creature wants to stay dead there’s no power outside of Divine Intervention that can keep a soul from its rest.

Extra Spells per Turn:
  As long as you follow the action economy you can cast more than one spell per turn (the second one cannot be higher than 2nd level). You can’t cast the spell more than once a turn, however...The Counterspell Conundrum: The above houserule applies unilaterally including that bastard counterspell. It follows the “second spell may not be higher than 2nd level” rule presented above.

Potion Usage:
  Drinking a potion is a bonus action. Feeding a potion to someone else is still an action.

Critical Skills:
  When rolling a natural 20 on an ability check is considered a critical success (within reason). Likewise this applies to natural 1s.

Leveling Up:
  Leveling up requires at least a long rest.

Critical Hits:
  Double it all. Maths are hard.

Magic Item Identification:
  Identifying a magic item requires the use of the Identify spell or attuning the item to you. Simply handling the item during a short rest is not enough. Experimentation is viable as well.

Fuck Jump Rules:
  Athletics skill checks will determine jump distance (rule of cool).

